Live as if you were to die tomorrow. Learn as if you were to live forever,- MK Gandhi. The sole search for learning was what brought me to United States and it is the same quest that has brought me now to Southwest Airlines. My first trip in US was to visit my uncle in Atlanta and I decided to travel with Southwest Airlines. After coming to the Love Field Airport, I saw lovely blue red colored Boeings, witnessed the amazing customer service and the comfort SWA provided while traveling. Why Southwest Airlines? Culture. This company gets it. The company picks up only the best people and invests heavily in them. Purpose, vision, mission, and values at most companies are words and concepts typically cobbled together by an outside entity. Southwest is different. They not only put thought into their culture, but their employees live it, and quite literally LUV it. I have friends who have interned at Southwest. When I ask them about the company vision, purpose, or values, I am not only surprised that they can recite it, but that they take it seriously. Fun-LUVing attitude? I cant tell you how often I catch Southwest folks having a good time while simultaneously entertaining and living their lives to the fullest. My excitement has no bounds after hearing back from SWA for Tech Ops Analyst Intern. I have been picturing internships with Southwest Airlines from the moment I stepped into their flight. Later, when I was gearing up for classes, INFORMS organized an information session with Southwest Airlines. I enquired more about Southwest Airlines and people described it as “I felt I belonged there”. Theyre different. They have the spark. I wonder how it would be to see all people like them in a company. I feel of being a part of the most successful airlines in the business and I want to ‘Live the Southwest way’ and ‘See the Southwest ME’. I LUV the company Spirit. The company started with just three cities and now it serves over 100 destinations in 8 countries, 100 million customers annually. I can see it expanding like anything. Southwest has the best engineers, best people around and has great leaders to work with. Interns here work on real-time projects, provide solutions that the company accepts and implements. I think the company will give me a platform where I can leverage my skills and apply what I learnt in classroom, get hands on experience and learn more. Throughout my Undergrad, I have always been the IT Girl with an electronics nametag. I have done a couple of internships and took Computer Science elective subjects out of passion and interest. It was while working on Credit Suisse’s internship project that I realized how data drives business decisions and process changes. The need to manage this data efficiently calls for keen analytical minds. Owing to this my next career aim was to pursue a Master’s degree in ITM with concentration in Business and Data Analysis. I took up electives like Business Analytics with R, Data Visualization, Operations Research and taken up projects in healthcare analytics to hone my analytical skills. All of this made me realize what my true calling is– Data Analytics. I also participated in INFORMS Data Analytics Challenge where I was able to provide actionable insights to PepsiCo’s business case using Excel, R and Tableu. I can use my analytical skills to come up with valuable insights and present it to the leadership in the form of reports, in return, contribute in making Southwest the Worlds Most Loved, Most Flown, and Most Profitable Airline. Alongside, I will be able to develop expertise in various business intelligence tools used in the Airline Industry which will eventually help me to hone my skills in analytics. I see myself getting to know more about the operations data and delivering actionable insights on the business forefronts as a career in the near future. I believe and share the same values as Southwest Airlines and am sure that I can make a difference to the organization owing to my academic and work profile and that the internship will ameliorate my academic and career goals. Coming to the Internship profile, technical Operations analyst refers to the administration of business practices to create the highest level of efficiency possible within an organization. I am interested in monitoring schedules for aircraft wash jobs, cabin visits, and intermediate checks, developed tools in Excel, Tableau automate Planning processes. I see myself contributing and adding value to every step in the process cycle for SWA to achieve their mission of ‘dedication to the highest quality of customer service delivered with a sense of warmth, friendliness, individual pride and company spirit’. That is why, Southwest Airlines.
